it began with an idea and that idea was
just
see if we could train a service dog
my name is Eileen bone I'm the director
of programs of helping paws so welcome
to big dark cloud during the last 19
years helping paws this place 114
service dogs our hope for the future and
goal is to increase our number of yearly
placements and also to lower the time
that a person has to wait for a service
dog we start with puppies at helping
paws so we have a breeding program that
produces the dogs that are going into
our service job training program and
there with the caretaker home for about
eight weeks and then they go on to start
their career as a service dog and what
that means is that they go to a foster
home volunteer at helping paws foster
families are the heart and soul of our
program and they've agreed to take the
stock into their home for two years and
work with that dog and a daily basis
attend weekly training classes my name
is Lynn ramo I am a foster home
volunteer and this is our puppy Otis I I
want to pay forward I want to do
something that's going to make a
difference in someone's life my name is
Danny Earhart and i'm here with kona and
we've been in helping paws now for a
little over two years it's exactly what
i was looking for when i was looking for
a volunteering opportunity and so i
couldn't be more grateful our goal as
instructors and staff is to teach them
how to train the dog then we want you to
start moving that piece of food around
first thing that we do is introduce them
to behavior saving and in common terms
that Susanna quickly always found as a
reinforcement to tell the dog that it's
doing what you want it has been just
fantastic and so easy and makes me
wonder why it isn't more well known
because if we did there could be so many
well-trained dogs out there
the dog kind of directs the training and
you reward their positive behavior the
things that they meant to be doing
that's what they get rewarded for start
saw it was simply just something likes
it but then you started to take things
Holden's open things and you chain them
together it's amazing that you can teach
a dog from holding a delta it goes from
there to open a door holding it waiting
for you to go through and then following
behind switch good boy my name is Angela
Foley and I've been partnered with my
low for a little bit over a year now i
have a form of muscular dystrophy called
spinal muscular atrophy and i was born
with it and it's a progressive
neuromuscular disease and I could walk
until I was about 12 13 years old and
then I started using a wheelchair well a
front I was really really really excited
to get my low because I had actually
been following him for a couple years he
had his own website and to find out that
I would actually be matched with him was
like a dream come true what's the play
well we had three weeks of it's called
team training and the first week and a
half we come to the training center and
they're going to learn the words that
the dog knows cues canine behavior how
to care for their dog both physically
and mentally and then how to work with
the driving public situations we learn
in three weeks what these dogs have
learned in two and a half years so it's
kind of a crash course for us price give
good boy you don't feel quite a
self-conscious when you go out and about
in public and people are interested in
Milo Milo fit good boy shake shake oh
you and so they want to know a little
bit more about what my love does for you
and that opens up a lot of doors for
social opportunities and I think that
was probably one of the biggest things
that I really notice how he's improved
my life dramatically from the start
that's it get bring before I guess I
didn't realize how many times I would
drop something onto the floor and wait
for somebody to walk by where I could
have him come over and pick it up for me
and now when I have him here and I'm
dropping things and it's nothing for him
to pick it up for me it makes me think
wow what did I do
stover a year ago I really waited for
other people to come around and help me
good way I'm graduation at helping paws
it's a culmination of that two and a
half years of training of the dog prior
to that and so everyone's very excited
for graduation there was not a dry eye
in the house and my daughter and I were
there and we just cried it was just as
meaningful to me as graduating from
college as graduating with my doctorate
in psychology on the way home it was
this is why we're doing this I think of
the importance of connection everyone
needs to have something that they care
for that cares for them back the service
dog epitomizes that the companionship
surprised me just how attached and how
bonded I would get to Milo in even a
short period of time and now I couldn't
imagine not having him in my life myla
will hold his head high so why should I
hold my head high and it's definitely
given me a greater sense of confidence
and self-esteem he's going to be
somebody's best friend what a gift to be
able to give somebody a best friend
you